# liveproject_surface_water_changes_satellite_data
Project code for assignments associated with the live manning project "Monitoring Changes in Surface Water Using Satellite Image Data"

## Deliverable for Milestone-2

Creates training and testing data set for identifying water region in satellite images. For the purpose of this milestone `NWPU-RESISC45` dataset and the dataset provided by the course is combined. Masked image label is created for each image in the combined dataset.

### Files and Directory

#### `Milestone-2.ipynb`
The notebook containing workflow to consolidate different datasources, create image labels, and write to disk.

#### Data

The directory containing different data sources.

The data used here can be downloaded from (GDrive)[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1V4V4dFvb0V22d4dTLo3U6e4EjVrtnSoV/view?usp=sharing]

**Data**
  ---| subfolder **Images** contains subfolder for each dataset
     ---| **NWPU** contains lake images from RESISC45 data
     ---| **S2_Cloudless** contains 40 sentinel-2 cloudless images provided in this course
  ---| subfolder **Labels** contains json files with label information and polygons co-oridinates for water.
     ---| **NWPU** contains labels for RESISC45 data
     ---| **S2_Cloudless** contains json files with labels for sentinel-2 cloudless images.
  ---| **Masks** is generated by the program and contains image masks for the combined dataset. The hierarchy is flattened into the name.
        e.g. an image from `NWPU` folder called `lake_014.jpg` would be named `mask_NWPU_lake_014.jpg`

**Workflow**

1. Polygons for the water region of each image is read.
2. Image mask is created from the water region and saved to disk.
3. training and testing split is created using scikit's `train_test_split`.
4. training set is augmented with real time transformation to help avoid over-fitting.
